README.md, before:

Welcome to this code test! :)

The main objective of this technical excercise is for you to get a good grasp of what kind of problems we encounter on Genially. We wouldn't want you to find some nasty surprises if you decide to join us. Also, it's a good starting point to have a technical conversation during an interview.

# Technology included

As you can see, the code test is a simple create-react-app, with some included libraries and some code bundled with it. Let's go through some of the lesser-known technologies.

## mobx-state-tree (MST for short)

This is the app state manager we use at our React apps. It's meant to be used with mobx, and unlike it, is very opinionated as how you should define your stores, models etc.

https://github.com/mobxjs/mobx-state-tree

## interact.js

Genially is a very interactivity-heavy application. Almost everything you use on the app can be moved around with your mouse, selected, scaled, rotated, etc. This library does most of the heavy lifting for us.

https://interactjs.io/

# Test requirements

The test is an extremely simplified version of the Genially editor. We provide you a working area, named `Canvas`, and elements that are displayed inside of it, named `Box`.

We've also added a rudimentary toolbar for some of the required functionality.

When finished, the app should let the user:

- Add and remove boxes.
- Select a box, which should visually indicate that is selected
- Drag the boxes around using interact.js and using React refs.
  - Keep in mind you should be able to drag a box even if it's not selected when the dragging starts.
- Changing a box's color.
- Display a counter indicating how many boxes are selected.
- Support selection, dragging and color changing for multiple boxes.
- Save the state of the app locally and restore it when it loads.
- Undo / Redo capabilities
  - **hint**: mobx-state-tree provides a middleware for this.

If you are unable to do some of the above, don't worry! But we would ask to at least explain what went wrong, how you would tackle the problem, or if you have no idea whatsoever 😃

Even if you manage to do everything, we also greatly appreciate comments on decisions you took, issues you faced or limitations you've left behind on purpose.

A good place to include those comments is the README.md of the repo.

# Delivery method

Send it to us however it suits you, but our preferred method is to get access to a **private fork of the repo**. This way, we can see historical changes, and a complete diff against the original repo on a PR. It's also a great way to write down feedback and discussion points for the interview afterwards.

If you opt for a fork with limited access, see the contact list below for people you can give access to. Please always include Chema & Román, and then someone else (or all of them!).

# Contact

If you have any questions about the test, you can contact any of us:

- Chema (<em>Github User [@chemitaxis](https://github.com/chemitaxis)</em> / chema@genially.com)
- Rafa (rafa@genially.com)
- Emanuel (emanuel@genially.com)
- Jesé (jese@genially.com)
- Román (roman@genially.com)
- Perico (perico@genially.com)
- Julio (juboba@genially.com)

Good Luck!

# Solution

This project is a React-based website that demonstrates state management, interactive UI elements, and undo/redo capabilities. It allows users to create, move, and customize multiple draggable boxes on a canvas. The challenge was to implement all functionality using mobx-state-tree for state management and interact.js for drag-and-drop interactions, while maintaining clean code practices.

## Requirements

- Add and remove boxes.
- Select a box, which should visually indicate that is selected.
- Drag the boxes around using interact.js and using React refs.
- Changing a box's color.
- Support selection, dragging and color changing for multiple boxes.
- Display a counter indicating how many boxes are selected.
- Save the state of the app locally and restore it when it loads.
- Undo / Redo capabilities.

## Notes on the solution

After receiving the project, I began by exploring the core concepts of the mobx-state-tree and interactjs libraries. Thanks to my previous experience with alternatives like Zustand or react-drag-and-drop, understanding their basic operation was straightforward.

The first step I took was setting up a linter and code formatter to ensure a consistent code style across the project and to help prevent potential errors.

I then focused on the global state management, using mobx-state-tree to structure the data through models and actions, which provided a clear and reactive way to manage application state. After that, I integrated interactjs to enable drag-and-drop functionality. Initially, I encapsulated this logic inside a custom hook. However, as I introduced multiple interactions on the same elements, I encountered issues with synchronizing the initial positions through refs. This caused unexpected behavior when moving elements. I refactored the solution by moving the interaction logic directly into the component, simplifying state synchronization and avoiding conflicts between the visual representation and MobX state.

While testing the app, I noticed inconsistencies in how selection behavior was handled. I improved this using interactjs event listeners to build a cleaner and more reliable selection actions.

To meet the final requirements of the test, I implemented local state persistence, added an action history system, and completed it with the ability to navigate through this history.

### Implemented Improvements

1. **Move the box without selecting it**:

   - Allows you to move a box without selecting it after the movement, which improves the fluidity of the interaction.
   - This functionality helps to make position changes of elements more intuitive.

2. **Change the selected box**:

   - When selecting a new box, it **deselects the previous one** and **selects the new one**, ensuring that only one box is selected at a time.
   - This facilitates interaction by allowing you to switch boxes quickly and clearly, without the need to manually deselect the previously selected box.

3. **Select multiple boxes with the Control or Command key**:

   - On Windows/Linux systems, you can use the `Ctrl` key to select multiple boxes.
   - On Mac, the `Command (⌘)` key is used for the same purpose, ensuring that the user experience is consistent across different platforms.
   - This functionality allows multiple elements to be selected at the same time.

4. **Handling inertia with action grouping**:

   - When using `inertia` with `store.historyManager.startGroup()`, conflicts arise because inertia expects smooth, continuous movement, while the history manager treats actions as discrete steps. This causes issues when the user interrupts a move by starting a new one before the previous finishes, resulting in errors or unexpected behavior.

5. **Simplified colour selection**:

   - Tapping a box selects it and updates the color input, making it easier for users to modify the box's color with fewer steps.

6. **Toolbar options based on user actions**:
   - The toolbar dynamically displays options like "Remove Selected" or "Deselect All" only when relevant.
   - Removed the "Remove Last Box Added" option, as it was redundant with the "Undo" feature.

## Additional libraries added

- **Prettier**: For consistent formatting of source code. It was configured with common style preferences.

- **ESLint**: To ensure code quality and best practices. Integrated with the standard react-app configuration and adapted to coexist with Prettier without conflict.

## Getting Started

To run the project locally, follow the steps below. The app was developed using **Node.js v16.x** to ensure compatibility with the installed dependencies. Using a different version may cause unexpected errors due to outdated library requirements.

### Prerequisites

- [Node.js v16](https://nodejs.org/download/release/latest-v16.x/)
- [Yarn](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/en/docs/install/)

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/TomasFdez5/frontend-code-test.git
   cd frontend-code-test
   ```

2. Install dependencies:

   ```bash
   yarn install
   ```

3. Start the development server:
   ```bash
   yarn start
   ```

### Code quality

Run linters and formatters to ensure code consistency:

- **Lint** the project:

  ```bash
  yarn run lint
  ```

- **Format** the code:
  ```bash
  yarn run format
  ```

Commit message:

Refactored Toolbar, UI Improvements and ID Generation

README.md, after:

Welcome to this code test! :)

The main objective of this technical excercise is for you to get a good grasp of what kind of problems we encounter on Genially. We wouldn't want you to find some nasty surprises if you decide to join us. Also, it's a good starting point to have a technical conversation during an interview.

# Technology included

As you can see, the code test is a simple create-react-app, with some included libraries and some code bundled with it. Let's go through some of the lesser-known technologies.

## mobx-state-tree (MST for short)

This is the app state manager we use at our React apps. It's meant to be used with mobx, and unlike it, is very opinionated as how you should define your stores, models etc.

https://github.com/mobxjs/mobx-state-tree

## interact.js

Genially is a very interactivity-heavy application. Almost everything you use on the app can be moved around with your mouse, selected, scaled, rotated, etc. This library does most of the heavy lifting for us.

https://interactjs.io/

# Test requirements

The test is an extremely simplified version of the Genially editor. We provide you a working area, named `Canvas`, and elements that are displayed inside of it, named `Box`.

We've also added a rudimentary toolbar for some of the required functionality.

When finished, the app should let the user:

- Add and remove boxes.
- Select a box, which should visually indicate that is selected
- Drag the boxes around using interact.js and using React refs.
  - Keep in mind you should be able to drag a box even if it's not selected when the dragging starts.
- Changing a box's color.
- Display a counter indicating how many boxes are selected.
- Support selection, dragging and color changing for multiple boxes.
- Save the state of the app locally and restore it when it loads.
- Undo / Redo capabilities
  - **hint**: mobx-state-tree provides a middleware for this.

If you are unable to do some of the above, don't worry! But we would ask to at least explain what went wrong, how you would tackle the problem, or if you have no idea whatsoever 😃

Even if you manage to do everything, we also greatly appreciate comments on decisions you took, issues you faced or limitations you've left behind on purpose.

A good place to include those comments is the README.md of the repo.

# Delivery method

Send it to us however it suits you, but our preferred method is to get access to a **private fork of the repo**. This way, we can see historical changes, and a complete diff against the original repo on a PR. It's also a great way to write down feedback and discussion points for the interview afterwards.

If you opt for a fork with limited access, see the contact list below for people you can give access to. Please always include Chema & Román, and then someone else (or all of them!).

# Contact

If you have any questions about the test, you can contact any of us:

- Chema (<em>Github User [@chemitaxis](https://github.com/chemitaxis)</em> / chema@genially.com)
- Rafa (rafa@genially.com)
- Emanuel (emanuel@genially.com)
- Jesé (jese@genially.com)
- Román (roman@genially.com)
- Perico (perico@genially.com)
- Julio (juboba@genially.com)

Good Luck!

# Solution

This project is a React-based website that demonstrates state management, interactive UI elements, and undo/redo capabilities. It allows users to create, move, and customize multiple draggable boxes on a canvas. The challenge was to implement all functionality using mobx-state-tree for state management and interact.js for drag-and-drop interactions, while maintaining clean code practices.

## Requirements

- Add and remove boxes.
- Select a box, which should visually indicate that is selected.
- Drag the boxes around using interact.js and using React refs.
- Changing a box's color.
- Support selection, dragging and color changing for multiple boxes.
- Display a counter indicating how many boxes are selected.
- Save the state of the app locally and restore it when it loads.
- Undo / Redo capabilities.

## Notes on the solution

After receiving the project, I began by exploring the core concepts of the mobx-state-tree and interactjs libraries. Thanks to my previous experience with alternatives like Zustand or react-drag-and-drop, understanding their basic operation was straightforward.

The first step I took was setting up a linter and code formatter to ensure a consistent code style across the project and to help prevent potential errors.

I then focused on the global state management, using mobx-state-tree to structure the data through models and actions, which provided a clear and reactive way to manage application state. After that, I integrated interactjs to enable drag-and-drop functionality. Initially, I encapsulated this logic inside a custom hook. However, as I introduced multiple interactions on the same elements, I encountered issues with synchronizing the initial positions through refs. This caused unexpected behavior when moving elements. I refactored the solution by moving the interaction logic directly into the component, simplifying state synchronization and avoiding conflicts between the visual representation and MobX state.

While testing the app, I noticed inconsistencies in how selection behavior was handled. I improved this using interactjs event listeners to build a cleaner and more reliable selection actions.

To meet the final requirements of the test, I implemented local state persistence, added an action history system, and completed it with the ability to navigate through this history.

### Implemented Improvements

1. **Move the box without selecting it**:

   - Allows you to move a box without selecting it after the movement, which improves the fluidity of the interaction.
   - This functionality helps to make position changes of elements more intuitive.

2. **Change the selected box**:

   - When selecting a new box, it **deselects the previous one** and **selects the new one**, ensuring that only one box is selected at a time.
   - This facilitates interaction by allowing you to switch boxes quickly and clearly, without the need to manually deselect the previously selected box.

3. **Select multiple boxes with the Control or Command key**:

   - On Windows/Linux systems, you can use the `Ctrl` key to select multiple boxes.
   - On Mac, the `Command (⌘)` key is used for the same purpose, ensuring that the user experience is consistent across different platforms.
   - This functionality allows multiple elements to be selected at the same time.

4. **Handling inertia with action grouping**:

   - When using `inertia` with `store.historyManager.startGroup()`, conflicts arise because inertia expects smooth, continuous movement, while the history manager treats actions as discrete steps. This causes issues when the user interrupts a move by starting a new one before the previous finishes, resulting in errors or unexpected behavior.

5. **Simplified colour selection**:

   - Tapping a box selects it and updates the color input, making it easier for users to modify the box's color with fewer steps.

6. **Toolbar options based on user actions**:

   - The toolbar dynamically displays options like "Remove Selected" or "Deselect All" only when relevant.
   - Removed the "Remove Last Box Added" option, as it was redundant with the "Undo" feature.

7. **Refactored Toolbar, UI Improvements and ID Generation**:
   - The toolbar code was split into smaller components for improved readability and maintainability.
   - The toolbar's styles were enhanced, buttons, information layout, space for improving the user experience.
   - A new, more user-friendly ID generation system was implemented, avoiding the use of UUIDs and opting for a simpler index-based approach.
   - **Button Accessibility**: Improved button accessibility, including emojis, by adding some `aria-labels`.

## Additional libraries added

- **Prettier**: For consistent formatting of source code. It was configured with common style preferences.

- **ESLint**: To ensure code quality and best practices. Integrated with the standard react-app configuration and adapted to coexist with Prettier without conflict.

## Getting Started

To run the project locally, follow the steps below. The app was developed using **Node.js v16.x** to ensure compatibility with the installed dependencies. Using a different version may cause unexpected errors due to outdated library requirements.

### Prerequisites

- [Node.js v16](https://nodejs.org/download/release/latest-v16.x/)
- [Yarn](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/en/docs/install/)

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/TomasFdez5/frontend-code-test.git
   cd frontend-code-test
   ```

2. Install dependencies:

   ```bash
   yarn install
   ```

3. Start the development server:
   ```bash
   yarn start
   ```

### Code quality

Run linters and formatters to ensure code consistency:

- **Lint** the project:

  ```bash
  yarn run lint
  ```

- **Format** the code:
  ```bash
  yarn run format
  ```
